Information on the examinations of the winter semester 2021/22
January 24, 2022
1. Written and oral examinations in presence
Mask obligation
Wearing a mask is obligatory for all participants of an examination (incl. the invigilator) during the
entire examination time. Access to the examination room is not permitted without a mask. Before or
during the examination, the mask may be pulled down briefly for identification purposes or to eat or
drink something. Students who do not wear a mask beyond these exceptions may be excluded from
the examination. In this case, the exam will be counted as "failed to appear" (and thus failed).
We recommend to wear FFP2 masks, which provide better protection than surgical masks. There is
an exception to the mask requirement only for medical reasons; in this case, the examinees must be
able to show the relevant medical certificate.
Proof of immunization against or testing for Covid-19
Upon entry to the examination room, the examiners or the examination supervisor are required to
check a proof of immunization or testing. Students who fail to provide the required evidence will not
be allowed to take the examination and will be recorded as "failed to appear" (i.e., failed). The
Appendix provides a list of acceptable evidence for immunization or testing.
Home isolation (quarantine)
Due to the expected course of the pandemic, it is likely that there will be students who are in
domestic isolation (quarantine) on the date of an attendance examination. A quarantine, if
necessary, will be evaluated like a medical certificate, i.e. the affected students will be subsequently
deregistered from the examination by the examination office. The prerequisite is that the necessity
of the quarantine is proven by a written confirmation.
Exactly which written confirmation must be provided can be found in the following sections. It must
be sent to the examination office within 4 weeks of the examination day (by e-mail, e.g. as a scan of
the documents required for the proof). In addition, the examination office must be informed by email
of non-participation in the examination no later than on the day of the examination.
Quarantine & proof for the examination office (I)
In the following cases, it is necessary to go into quarantine in any case:
• In case of own infection: quarantine for at least 10 days (free testing possible after 7 days).
Proof by the result of an official rapid test/PCR test or by a quarantine certificate from the
health office or the public order office,
• In case of quarantine order: duration of quarantine as described in the order. Evidence:
written quarantine order.
Quarantine & proof for the examination office (II)
2
Things get complicated for household members and the so-called contacts (Kontaktpersonen) of
infected persons, because the following rules do not apply to vaccinated or recovered persons under
all circumstances.
As a general rule, persons living in the same household as an infected person must go into home
isolation for at least 10 days even without a quarantine order (free testing possible after 7 days). As
proof, the examination office requires the test result for the infected person, plus proof of the shared
address, e.g. copies of the registration certificates (at the residents' registration office).
"Contacts" (Kontaktpersonen) are anyone who learns, either through a red alert in the Corona app or
personal information from infected individuals, that they may have become infected themselves. If
this is the case, according to the country's guidelines, one should isolate oneself for at least 10 days
(i.e. only leave the house in justified exceptional cases). For everyone's protection, we ask you to do
this. The necessary proof for the domestic isolation of contact persons differs from city to city. In
Siegen-Wittgenstein, for example, there is a contact form on the district's website that for contacts.
It gets complicated because the following groups of people are exempt from the requirement
(household members) or urgent recommendation (contacts) of home isolation:
• Triple vaccinated,
• Twice vaccinated, if the second vaccination was more than 14 days and less than 90 days
ago,
• Convalescents who have been vaccinated at least once thereafter,
• Recovered without subsequent vaccination if the PCR test confirming infection was more
than 27 days and less than 90 days ago.
Briefly summarized: Anyone who is neither vaccinated nor recovered as a household member or
contact person must be quarantined. Those who are triple vaccinated or recovered+vaccinated do
not have to. For those who have been vaccinated twice and those who have recovered without
subsequent vaccination, it depends on how long ago the last vaccination/infection occurred.
Those who do not have to go into quarantine can, of course, take attendance exams. However, for
the protection of everyone else, the university asks that you take a test before the exam to be on the
safe side.
Corona-related emergencies
Even if one does not have to go into quarantine oneself, corona-related emergencies can occur, e.g.
if one's own child is not allowed to go to daycare after a positive pool test (lollipop test) and no care
can be organized at short notice. In such cases, non-attendance at an examination will not be
counted upon informal application to the relevant subject examination board. The request must be
made within 4 weeks and must be accompanied by suitable written proof of the emergency.
Buildings, rooms and seats
All exterior doors leading directly to rooms where exams are written will be open. You can find
where these entrances are located in the following tables as well as the maps in the appendix.
3
Adolf-Reichwein-Campus (map 1)
Examination room Entrance (orange circle on the map) GPS coordinates
(Google Maps)
AR-D 5102 bis 5105
(bunte Hörsäle)
No. 20, entrance to building part D via the
Affenfelsen
50.910437, 8.025676
AR-E 8101 (Audimax) Glass staircase to the right of building entrance
No. 20 (see above)
50.910596, 8.025724
AR-H 102
AR-M (Mensa)
No. 2, main entrance to the Mensa 50.910642, 8.026872
Hölderlin-Campus (map 2)
Examination room Entrance (orange circle on the map) GPS coordinates
(Google Maps)
H-C 3305
No. 1, main entrance, access from
Hölderlinstraße
50.906096, 8.028252
Paul-Bonatz-Campus (map 3)
Examination room Entrance (orange circle on the map) GPS coordinates
(Google Maps)
PB-A 117/1
PB-A 401
PB-A 406
No. 9, main entrance to building part A 50.902826, 8.030486
PB-C 101
PB-I 101
No. 7, main entrance to building part C 50.903193, 8.030116
Emmy-Noether-Campus (map 4)
Examination room Entrance (orange circle on the map) GPS coordinates
(Google Maps)
ENC-D 114
ENC-D 308
No. 8, main entrance 50.874013, 8.004881
Campus Unteres Schloss (map 5)
Examination room Entrance (orange circle on the map) GPS coordinates
(Google Maps)
US-F 002 No. 1, main entrance to building part D 50.873286, 8.023260
All exterior doors leading to the partial libraries open during the non-lecture period are also open. All
other doors remain closed to the public. For examinations in rooms other than those mentioned
above, e.g. oral examinations, the examiners will let you into the building.
In the examination rooms, those seats that may be occupied are marked with a green sticker; all
other seats may not be occupied.
4
All rooms in which exams are written either have automatic ventilation that reduces the
concentration of aerosols or are regularly ventilated through the windows. This serves to protect
against infection, but also means that the temperature in these rooms tends to be low. Please be
prepared for this and dress warmly.
2. Online exams
If you do not have the necessary equipment at home to take an online exam, an exam station at the
university can be made available to you. Please contact the officer of the Prorector for Education,
Katharina Jabs (katharina.jabs@uni-siegen.de).
If on an examination date, you had to go to in domestic isolation (quarantine), your non-attendance
at the examination will not be counted upon informal request to the relevant examination board.
The request must be made within 4 weeks and must be accompanied by proof of the need for
quarantine (details above under "Home Isolation (Quarantine)"). This regulation takes into account
the fact that some of the affected students may not have a suitable examination environment at
home.
Students who wish to take an online exam despite being isolated at home may do so under the exam
conditions that apply to all participants.
5
Attachment: Proof of immunization against or testing for Covid-19
Regardless of whether students are vaccinated, recovered, or tested, additional photo identification
must always be checked, i.e., ID card/passport or USi card with photo.
Vaccinated
• 2G vignette of the University of Siegen. The vignette is stuck on the
back of the USiCard and is only valid there.
• Proof of vaccination:
o Yellow vaccination card: WHO vaccination card with the full
name of the person and pasted vaccine brands of the active substances approved by
the EMA (BioNTech, Moderna, AstraZeneca, Johnson & Johnson). After the second
vaccination 14 days must have passed, the booster vaccination is valid from the day
of the vaccination date.
o Digital vaccination certificate: The second "EU Digital Covid Vaccination Certificate"
in printed form or in a smartphone app (e.g. CovPass, Corona warning app). 14 days
must have passed after the last or the second vaccination, the booster vaccination is
valid from the day of the vaccination date.
Recovered
• Proof of a past infection in the form of a positive PCR test result. The date of detection must
be at least 28 days and no more than 90 days ago. The detection is performed by:
o PCR result from a laboratory, physician, testing site or testing center.
o Medical certificate, certificate of segregation, other certificates from authorities,
recovery cards from a health office: must contain information on the type of test
(PCR) and the test or notification date.
Tested
• Evidence of a negative COVID-19 test by a certified negative result. Suitable detection
methods are:
o the result of a rapid antigen test (citizen test) performed by trained personnel (not
older than 24 hours). NOT ELIGIBLE are so-called online tests, where a self-test is
"certified" by a physician (e.g. Dr. Ansay, Test-Express).
o the result of a PCR test performed by a recognized laboratory (not older than 48
hours).
